
The way to get startup ideas is not to try to think of startup ideas. It's to look for problems, preferably problem you have yourself.
The very best startup ideas tend to have three things in common:
they're somethig the founders want, that they themselves can build, that few others relize are worth doing.


Why is it so important to work on a problem you have?Among other things, it ensures 
the problem really exist. It sounds obvious to say you should only work on problems that exist.

And yet by far the most common mistake startup make is to solve problems no one has.


I made it myself. In 1995 I started a company to put art galleries online.
But galleries didn't want to be online, it's not how art business works.
So why did I spend 6 months on this stupid idea?
Because I didn't pay attention to users.
I invented a model of world that didn't correspond to reality, and worked from that.
I didn't notice my model was wrong until I convinced users to pay for what I'd built.
Even then I took embarrassingly long to catch on. I was attached to my model of the world, 
and I'd spent a lot of time on the software. They had to want it.


Why do so many founders build things that no one wants?
Because they begin by tring to think of startup ideas.
it doesn't merely yield few good ideas
it yields bad ideas that sound plausible enough to fool you into working on them.

For example, a social network for pet owners.
It doesn't sound obviously mistaken. 
Millions of people have pets and they care a lot about their pets and spend a lot of money on them.
Surely many of these people would like a site where they could talk to other pet owners.
Not all of them perhaps, but if 2 or 3 percent were regular visitors, you could have Millions of users.
You could server them targeted offers, and maybe charge for premium features.

The danger of an idea like is that when you run it by you friends with pet, they don't say "I would never user  this"
They say "yeah, maybe I could see using something like that."
Even when the startup launches, it will sound plausible to a lot of people.
They don't want to use it themselves, at least not right now, but they could imagine othe people wanting it.

Sum that reaction across entire population, and you have zeor users.

